# CS_360_Inventory_App
 Android inventory application, featuring Room database, user login/registration, push notifications with permission requests,  the ability to add and delete items.


# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

- While there are many apps for many different purposes, considering this was an inventory app intended to track stock available in a warehouse, I felt simplicity was key. This is a workhorse app with a somewhat singular purpose, and keeping it clean, simple, and intuitive was the goal. I wanted to make sure that nothing got in the way of the app being used for its intended purpose. I have personally worked in a warehouse, and other positions that required inventory management. I found that those systems were often unintuitive, sometimes had a high learning curve, and were very difficult for some users to work with effectively, often requiring complex navigation and key entries to do basic tasks. One shortcoming I encountered was systems that required extra steps to finalize the changes, but did not prompt the user if they did not finalize them before exiting.  This led to many errors in inventory as the users often exited after making changes and those changes were never saved. In my app I wanted to make sure that the changes were more direct and any change made in the user interface was also reflected in the database.


## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?

- In the current form my process was somewhat cavalier.  I find that I enjoy the process the most when I dive right in and get some code down so I have something to modify, break, fix, and push toward a goal.  I iterate quite a bit on ideas, the process helps me get in the zone and move quickly and keep it all fresh in my mind. Android is very complex, and even a small app like this is starting to push the limits of how effectively I can use such an approach.  For future additions and improvements I will spend some time creating UML class diagrams and mapping out the creation and flow of objects through various classes.  Android has a lot of custom data types in the form of objects, and it can easily end up going several classes deep just to discover the foundational objects that were passed into the constructor of another which was then passed into the constructor of another along with some other object. I use the class diagrams to trace backwards from where I want to end up until I find all the components needed to build up to that final goal. 

## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?

- When code appeared to be working correctly, I used more of a manual user interaction test. To cover use cases I used two emulators, and my Pixel 7 by connecting it directly with Android Studio from the developer options menu. The Pixel 7 uses Android 14 and represented my most up to date test case.  One emulator is Android 13, and the second represents the oldest supported version of this project. I am exploring setting up containers on my home server to use AnBox.  This will allow me to have to have a broader range of test devices.  I still have a lot to sort out but my end goal is to be able to run a series of automated tests across a wider variety of versions and reduce the amount of time I have to spend manually testing. This will be a good intermediate step before pushing to the Google Play store and moving on to local testing and release.

- Conversely, when the code was not working, I made heavy use of logcat and debugging to step through and trace the flow of data to pinpoint the exact process that is causing crashes. I also made heavy use of the Android Studio database features to verify my database was being created and responding to changes.

## Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

- First off, I would say that much of it was a challenge.  Android is a very involved ecosystem.  This project used Java, Groovy, and XML, requiring a lot of context switching. I did a rough count and there are over 10,000 java classes in the Android Ecosystem, based on Androids class list index. There are many paths to solve a problem, and several architecture patterns such as Model-View-Controller(MVC), and Model-View-ViewModel(MVVM) +Repository, that work well with Android. 

## In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

- The component I'm most proud of are my push notifications. The requirement was to be notified when an item reached 0. Using WorkManager I implemented notifications that not only notified the user of the specific item that was 0 but would also remove the notification from the status bar if the item was increased to a number above 0. The end user would not need to swipe away the notification if items were added to the inventory, it would automatically be removed from WorkManager.  The next feature I want to implement is an intent for the notification allowing user interaction to open the specific item in the inventory to make adjustments to the quantity or otherwise edit or remove the item.